# wordle-solver
A simple Wordle guess optimizer that utilizes the letter frequency in potential Wordle answers to give optimized next guesses. Being an earlier project of mine, this was actually written prior to the creation of WordleBot, so the creators of WordleBot copied me and not the other way around! For faster and more user-friendly Wordle help, check out Wordle Incognito Helper on GreasyFork. Usage is detailed below:
  Upon running the program, the terminal will ask you to list gray letters. List any gray letters in the form letter,letter,... (don't end the list in a comma though) then hit enter (or just hit enter if there are none). Then, when prompted, list any yellow letters in the form letter,position letter,position ... where position is the number of the space in the five letter word where you know that that letter is not (if a is yellow in the first space of the five letter word, you would list a,1 here). If a given letter has appeared as yellow in multiple positions, you may list such positions by appending with a comma in the form letter,position1,position2,... . Finally, after hitting enter, list any green letters in the same format that you listed the yellow letters in. 
  Next, you will be asked if you want to change any settings. Possible setting changes include changing the program to look for words only in the list of possible answers instead of all accepted Wordle words, including words with two of the same letter as potential answers (the program defaults to not including such answers), an option to just be given the answer for the day (this is the "Desperate?" prompt) (either enter 0 for no here or enter the number of the day's puzzle to answer yes), and the ability to change the security level of any log statements (enter 20 or higher to not see debugging statements). Each respective setting change prompt will end with two options in parentheses--these are the options by which you can respond to each prompt and should be self-explanatory for the most part ('' means just hit enter).
  Lastly, the program will tell you your next best guess and the probability that it is the correct answer. If the program says that your next best guess is 'A' then that means that under the constraints you have given the program, there is no possible solution. If the program gives you a next best guess that is not 'A' but says that there is a 0% chance that it is the solution, that means that that word is not in the list potential solutions, but is still the optimal guess.
  When asked if done, enter y if you have found the solution or simply want to quit the program and n if you are still working. The program will then proceed to ask the same questions all over again. When prompted for gray, yellow, and green letters again, do not bother entering in information that you entered in the first time; the program stores all data you enter over the course of its runtime. However, if you entered in a letter as yellow originally but now know its actual position, you can still list it as a green letter, and, as long as information never conflicts, you can enter whatever data you want into the program without causing an error. 
  Enjoy!
